25 Best Treks in Nepal from Popular to Lesser-known Trekking Routes:
Determining which trekking destinations to set foot on is always troublesome. Needless to worry, we are here to help you select the best treks in Nepal. All trips listed here are multi-day treks and require one to three weeks to complete. These hikes permit you to have a close perspective on the majestic mountains, gradual slopes, and fertile valleys.
Many trekking trails in Nepal are sure to leave you spellbound. These treks give you a chance to interact with the local community and share unique cultures and traditions. Confused about choosing the most popular trekking adventure?
We are breaking the iceberg of your dilemma while choosing a copious number of matchless places to answer the above questions. Have a look at these 25 best treks in Nepal.

1. Everest Base Camp Trek in Nepal
Set for a jaw-dropping expedition that breaks all the bars of challenges in trials among the worlds. Unquestionably, it is the most popular trek. It is a moderate holiday, and the trail is approximately 130 kilometers in the distance.
This trip is not just a trek but a “footstep closer to the paradise of the world”. So, go on an Everest tour and buckle yourself to get lost in one of the highest routes that accompany loads of challenges, wondrous forests, graceful mountains, glaciers, Sherpa settlements, Namche Bazaar, foothills, flying prayer flags, and whatnot to the window for the world. Further, the trekking path runs over the edge of the Sagarmatha National Park, where you can discover distinct vegetation and fauna varieties. In like manner, you will witness the Tengboche religious society, which is a deep concentration in the Everest Region. Different international media have already included Everest Base Camp Trekking as one of the best treks in the world. Therefore, it’s not surprising to see EBC at the top of the list of the 25 best treks in Nepal.
Spotlights
    Enlisted as the fourth-best trek in the world by Lonely Planet.
    A UNESCO World Heritage Site, Sagarmatha National Park,
    Namche Bazaar, a vivid sherpa town
    World-brand hiking adventure
    Mountain people and their culture
    The base camp of the highest mountain in the world
    Tengboche Monastery, a spiritual hub in Everest
    No age restriction, however, is recommended for ages ranging from 14 to 65.
    Kala Patthar, the viewpoint of having the best view of Everest.
    Magnificent mountain landscapes, including the mighty Everest.
Keynotes 
    Maximum Elevation: 5550 M above the sea level
    Starting point: Lukla Airport (one of the most dangerous and highest-altitude airports in the world)
    Weather: Cold and fluctuating.
    High-speed Internet: Available at EBC camp
    Restricted Permits: None (Khumbu Rural Permit & Sagarmatha National Park Permit is required)
    Best Season: September- November, March-May
    Duration: 10-20 days determined by budget and physical fitness
    Distance: 130 km (80 miles) round trip from the town of Lukla
    Pricing: Moderate
    Trekking hardship: Moderate

2. Annapurna Base Camp Trekking
Base Camp Annapurna is one of the most in-demand trekking spots. Annapurna Base Camp Trek route is a vibrant, adventurous, and legendary classic trekking trail, taking you into the splendid skyscraping mountaintop, a gorgeous range of landscapes, lush Rhododendrons, and local settlements. The trek starts with the staggering perspectives of the snow-topped Himalayas, Gurung villages, and sunrise view from poon hill, and ends with reviving natural hot springs close to Jhinu Danda.
Hence, savor the inner spirit of adventure to march on this extraordinary Annapurna trekking tour with one of the best trekking packages in Nepal.
Spotlights
    Mt. Annapurna (10th highest in the world, 8,091 meters).
    Transit through the world’s widest pass- Thorong la Pass (5,416 meters)
    Peaks above 7,000 meters in the Annapurna Massif
    Diversified trekking trail.
    Local Gurung & Magar Cultures in the villages on the route
    Annapurna Conservation Area (Spot rare species such as Himalayan Monal and red panda).
    Jhinu Danda, natural hot springs
    Panoramic view of beautiful Pokhara
    Reflection of the Himalayas in Lake Phewa
Quick Facts
    Altitude: 4,130m above sea level.
    Starting point: Nayapul (might take 2 hours to reach from Pokhara)
    Weather: The temperate on the trail is usually 17 degrees Celsius to 20 degrees. However, the weather is unpredictable as gets colder in the upper regions.
    Trekking Permits: Yes
    Best Season: March to May (Mild Weather), and late September – early December (Cold Weather)
    Duration: 10 to 16 days
    Distance: 115 km (71.5 miles) round trip from the town of Nayapul
    Pricing: Moderate to High
    Trekking difficulty: Moderately Difficult

3. Ghorepani Poonhill Trekking
Traveling to Nepal means you have quite an excellent opportunity to go on a hiking adventure saga. Away from the city, if you are truly enthusiastic about learning about stunning mountains and rich culture, then what else can be better than the Ghorepani Poon Hill Trek? The hike represents an astounding perspective that is adored by the explorers searching for a little trekking experience. Poon Hill trip is moderate and straightforward at a troublesome level. Hence, it is presumably the easiest in the Annapurna Sanctuary of Nepal. If you are fond of trekking challenging routes, then the Poonhill trail can be a great option for experiencing acclimatization. Therefore, Poonhill is one of the best short and budget-friendly trails among the 25 best treks in Nepal.
Spotlights
    Access to the classic outlook of the Annapurna range and Dhaulagiri
    Famous short and budget-friendly trip from Pokhara
    Amazing views of the sunrise on the icy peaks from Poon Hill
    Astonishing scenery of rhododendrons, rice paddies, and snow-capped mountains
    Climb 3,381 steps.
    Budget-friendly
    Cultural trek, antique and rich cultural villages
Quick Trekking Facts
    Altitude: 3,210 meters
    Starting point: Nayapul (might take 2 hours to reach from Pokhara)
    Weather: Cold (4 degrees Celsius on average)
    Permits: Yes (Annapurna Sanctuary, TIMS card)
    Best Season: Autumn–September through November
    Duration: 5-12 days
    Distance: Approximately 40-50 kilometers (25-31 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips.
    Pricing: Moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Mild

4. Annapurna Circuit Trek Package in Nepal
With Annapurna Circuit Trek, you submerge in a mountain culture as you pass through scenic diversity. The scenic views of the gigantic mountain of the Himalayas (Lamjung, Dhaulagiri, and Annapurna massif itself) are sure to surprise you. Likewise, walking through the dusty roads to the highest altitude mountain lakes, Tilicho (4920m), and the world’s deepest gorge, Kali Gandaki Gorge, is itself one of the best adventure trekking in Nepal. Further, a popular travel magazine publisher, Lonely Planet, has included Annapurna Circuit in the list of the top 10 places to travel. Henceforth, it’s no doubt that Annapurna Circuit trekking is one of the top-rated classic treks in Nepal.
Spotlights
    World’s classic walk
    Trails and diverse landscape
    Ancient village squares
    Sacred main walls and monasteries
    Gorgeous green terraced farms
    Passing by Thorong La Pass- a high pass over 5,000 m
    Tibetan desert style and river-valley diversity are experienced all at once.
Quick Trek facts
    Altitude: 5416m (17,769ft)-Thorong La Pass,
    Starting point: Beshi Sahar,
    Weather: Cold and misty (10 C to 5°C at midday and -5°C at night),
    Permits: Yes, 2 types (TIMS & ACAP),
    Best Season: Late Feb – April, October – early December,
    Duration: 17-21 days determined by the budget and physical fitness of the trekker
    Distance: Approximately 160-230 kilometers (100-145 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Trekking hardship: Difficult and the weather can also be challenging.

5. Gokyo Lake Trekking
Trekking to Gokyo Valley sanctions you to the majestic Khumbu Valley and splendid Khumbu icefall. With this, you visit a sacred lake in the valley, along with ancient monasteries and Buddhist traditions. Everest Gokyo Lake is the most sort out route after the base camp hike among all other Mount Everest tours. The hike permits you to have dazzling perspectives on the four high mountain tops, to be specific, Mt. Everest (the Highest Mountain in the World), Mt. Makalu, Mt. Cho-Oyu, and Mt. Lhotse at the same time. Also, the side view of villages rich in costume is a peek into Sherpa’s lifestyle. Overall, the Gokyo Lake trek is one of the must-to-do treks in Nepal from the Everest locale.
Spotlights
    Ngozumpa Glacier, the longest glacier in Nepal
    Everest, Mt. Makalu, Mt. Cho Oyu, Mt. Lhotse, etc.
    Gokyo Valley and Gokyo Lakes
    Largest freshwater system in the world
Quick Trek Facts
    Altitude: 5,357 m
    Starting point: Lukla,
    Weather: Cold and fluctuating
    Permits: Yes (Sagarmatha National Park Permit and Khumbu Rural Municipality Permit)
    Best Season: Spring and Autumn
    Duration: 11 days (depending upon the personal ability and climate)
    Pricing: Moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Moderately difficult

“How glorious a greeting the sun gives the mountains!” -John Muir

6. Langtang Trek
If you ever visit ‘Langtang’ then your lips can’t control the uttering, “spectacularly beautiful”. Lopping towards quaint mountain villages, multiform climatic conditions, and the inspiring and challenging experience of walking is a rewarding activity in the Langtang locale. So, lace-up hiking boots to feel the magnificent beauty, regions, hospitality of people, and lifestyles. As you can plan and execute the top-rated Langtang Valley Trek in a week-long stay, it is in the top 25 best treks in Nepal as the easy and finest trek in the country.
Spotlights
    Short trek near Kathmandu Valley
    Less crowded and hike to the off-the-beaten paths.
    Kyanjin Gompa
    Langtang Valley
    Stunning Views of Langtang Himal
    Some rare animals like Rare Panda, Snow leopards, etc.
    Local Indigenous People
    Monasteries and traditionally built stone houses.
Quick Trek Facts
    Altitude: 4600m (Kyanjin Ri peak)
    Starting point: Syabru Besi
    Weather: Cold
    Restricted permits: Yes (Langtang National Park Permit and the TIMS Card)
    Best Season: Autumn (Mid-September to Mid- November)
    Duration: 7-12 days
    Distance: Approximately 80-90 kilometers (50-55 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Pricing: Moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Moderate

7. Mardi Himal Trekking
If you are seeking an attractive short trekking route in the Annapurna region, then the Mardi Himal trek can be the best choice. It is a short odyssey of the shepherd route above Pokhara. The trekking route is one of the off-beaten paths which is separate and a virgin. The scenarios are super tempting and extremely wonderful. With this quick trip, you luxuriate yourself in sublime mountain giants like Machhapuchhre, Hiunchuli, and Mardi Himal itself. These mountains are the “candy for the eye”.
Mardi Trek amasses a new goal each hiking day, which implies you won’t rehash a similar path. It is the most admired short trip in recent days. The short hike requires slight effort, and you can trek to the area in a minimum number of days. Therefore, it is one of the best short and easy treks in Nepal because of the popularity it gained within a few hiking years. You can go on this trip around any time of the year. However, hiking in spring allows you to see the lush rhododendron covering the hills, adding a sweet fragrance to the air.
Spotlights
    Eco-Tourism trekking trial
    Varied vegetations
    Authentic teahouses
    The landscape of the Annapurna range
    Glacial valleys
    Sightseeing of Kathmandu and Pokhara Valley
    Pristine views of landscapes and mountains
    Less crowded trail
    Natural waterfalls
Quick Facts
    Altitude: 4,500m
    Starting point: Kande/Landruk/Ghandruk
    Weather: Average (17 degrees Celsius) to cold (-2 degrees Celsius)
    Permits: Yes (ACAP and TIMS)
    Best Season: March-May, September-November
    Duration: 5 -12 days
    Distance: Approximately 60-70 kilometers (37-43 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Pricing: Moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Mild difficulty

8. Journey to Upper Mustang 
Upper Mustang has a complex and rich history, making it one of the prominent fascinating hiking places around the Himalayas. This mystical land embraces your shadow as for the Himalayas along with less inhabitation-loyal people living in the mountain region. That thoroughly names this region as the “Last Forbidden Kingdom”. To enter the place, trekkers need a special restricted area permit, which should be attained with a certified guide. Thus, the trekking destination is unique in every form. Besides, as it lies in a fraction of the Tibetan plateau, we can also compare it to wandering in Tibet. Hence, Upper Mustang Trek is on the list of best treks in Nepal.
Spotlights
    Ancient monasteries,
    The dazzling architecture of Lo Manthang (Mustang region capital) walled city.
    Cave dwellings on the cliffs
    Sandy and desert alike route
    Traditional village’s red cliffs
    Hospitality of people
    Pony ride
    Rare privilege (allowed for non-Nepali trekkers around 20 years ago)
Quick Trekking Facts
    Maximum Elevation: 4,010 meters
    Starting point: Jomsom
    Weather: Cold, so winter treks avoided
    Restricted permits: Yes
    Best Season: Spring (March, April, May), Fall (September, October, November)
    Duration: 12-18 days
    Distance: 160-170 kilometers (100-105 miles), depending on the trekking route taken and side trips
    Pricing: Moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Moderate-Hard

9. Manaslu Circuit Trek in Nepal
Are you looking for a shorter jungle trekking package to remote Nepal? Manaslu Circuit offers an enriching uplifting mountain and a fantastic series of jungles heading off to the wild. It’s one of the popular physically demanding treks in Nepal. Manaslu circuit offers breathtaking views of the highest peaks in the world- Manaslu, Himlung Himal, Annapurna II Nemjung, and Gyaji Kang. Isolated trekking offers the raw experience of walking in the wild and remote areas. Besides, we cannot define the beautiful exposure to the wildness of nature and the view of the eight tallest mountains in words. Therefore, the Manaslu Circuit Trek is on the list of the 25 best treks to do in Nepal.
Spotlights
    Remote Section walks
    Local people and their culture
    Landscapes, waterfalls, rivers, forests, etc.
    Forest trekking
    Manaslu is the eighth-highest mountain.
    Larkya La Pass
    Manaslu Conservation Area
Quick Trek Facts
    Altitude: 5,106 m
    Starting point: Soti Khola
    Weather: Cold and fluctuating
    Restricted permits: Yes and MCAP and ACAP as well
    Best Season: Spring and Autumn
    Duration: 14-18 days
    Distance: 177 kilometers (110 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Pricing: Moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Quite challenging

10. Kanchenjunga Base Camp Trek
Trekking to Kanchenjunga is undoubtedly one of the best things to do. It is a pretty epic hiking adventure in the third world’s highest peak. The hiking trail leads to the Kanchenjunga Conservation Area in the world of endangered and wildlife diversities. There are amazing teahouses on the route. Besides, it is a pathway to the glacial excursion of a frozen lake crystal clear stream, and Okthan glacier. Ramche offers the visually adorable field vision of the Kanchenjunga trekking trail. We can visit these through the Northern Base Camp and Southern Base Camp. If you are looking for a forest trek with enough places to explore, then here is the Kanchenjunga Base Camp Trekking Tour, one of the best exploratory treks in Nepal.
Spotlights 
    Kanchenjunga Mountain
    Conservation Area
    Off the beaten tramp,
    Arun Valley
    Thick Forests, Green Hills
Quick Trek Facts
    Altitude: 5,143 m (Pangpema Viewpoint)
    Starting point: Taplejung
    Weather: lower is warmer and higher is cold
    Restricted permits: Restricted Area Permit (RAP) and Kanchenjunga Conservation Area Permit (KCAP)
    Best Season: Spring and Autumn
    Duration: 23-30 days (depending upon the personal ability and climate)
    Distance: Approximately 177 kilometers (110 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Pricing: Cheaper to moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Quite difficult

    “We are now in the mountains and they are in us, kindling enthusiasm, making every nerve quiver, filling every pore and cell of us.” – John Muir

11. Chola Pass Trek
Witness the admirable mountain scenery and rhododendron forests on the Chola Pass Trek, a circular trekking route. In the world’s most spectacular mountain land, this popular trekking region connects Chola Pass, Gokyo Lake, and Everest Base Camp. If you find it difficult, then you can also take a helicopter return to Kathmandu after Everest Base Camp Trek and take a helicopter return to Kathmandu. This challenging trek makes the list of the 25 best treks in Nepal because of the high pass adventures and amazing mountain views.
Spotlights
    Passes through Tengboche monastery where the Mani Rimdu festival is observed, and monks perform daily prayer.
    Categorized under the testing trips around the Everest area.
    Crossing the high Cho La Pass (5368 meters) on the route.
    Visit Khumbu’s glacier-popular Himalayan Glacier.
    Explore hidden Yeti legends.
    Witness the breathtaking mountain scenery, rhododendron forests,
    Terraced fields and summer pastures in pursuit of yak grazing and mountain scenery
    The graphic landscape of glaciers and ice.
Quick Trek facts
    Maximum Elevation: 5,545m
    Starting point: Namche or Tengboche Monastery
    Weather: freezing
    Permits: Yes (Sagarmatha National Park Permit and Khumbu Rural Municipality Permit)
    Best Season: Spring and Autumn
    Duration: 15-21 days determined by the budget and physical fitness of the trekker
    Distance: 130-150 km approx
    Trekking hardship: Adventurous

12. Everest View Trek (Chola Pass hike)
The Everest view trek is primarily to get a close-acquainted look at Mount Everest and other Himalayan mountains. The watersheds, lifestyle of Himalayan people, and the wilderness of rare Himalayan species of UNESCO enlisted heritage site, Sagarmatha National Park, is mentioned-worthy. Hence, the short and easy Everest View trek is one of the most well-liked short treks in Nepal.
Spotlights 
    Scenic view of Mt. Everest (8848.86m),
    Quaint the unique Sherpa culture.
    Tengboche Monastery, the host of the colorful Buddhist celebration, Mani Rimdu
    A glimpse of the Hillary Museum,
    Highlights of the Sherpa town, Namche Bazaar,
    Enjoy monasteries and colorful prayer flags reflecting Tibetan culture,
    Amazing Sagarmatha National Park,
    Khumbu region scenery,
    Waterfalls,
    Splendid view of Amadablam
Quick Trek facts
    Highest point: 3780 m,
    Starting point: Lukla
    Weather: Cold and misty (10 C to 5°C at midday and -5°C at night),
    Trekking Permits: Yes (Sagarmatha National Park Permit and Khumbu Rural Municipality Permit)
    Best Season: Autumn and Spring
    Duration: 7-10 days determined by the budget and physical fitness of the trekker.
    Distance: Approximately 50-60 kilometers (31-37 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Trekking hardship: Easy to moderate.
    
13. Tsum Valley Trek
Hands down to the secluded Himalayan valley. The fascinating cultural blend of dramatic landscapes, mysterious canyons, glaciers, and astonishing views of Mt. Manaslu (the eighth highest peak in the world), Mt. Himchuli, etc. makes it one of the finest treks to do in Nepal. The inhabitants of Tsum Valley originate from Tibet. So, the culture and traditions resemble Tibetan cultures. Tsum Valley and Nupri Valley inhabitants are indigenous people who are sacred to Buddhists. Therefore, the Tsum Valley hike is an indigenous remote section trip on the list of the 25 best treks in Nepal.
Spotlights of the hidden valley trek
    Sacred Mountains Caves
    Ganesh Range
    Dense forests, raging rivers, and mythical villages.
    The remotest Himalayan Valleys in the world
    Prayer flags and Mani walls
    Wildlife Animals like Blue Sheep and Himalayan Thar,
Quick Trek Facts
    Highest Altitude: 5,160 m
    Starting point: Soti Khola
    Weather: Mild and moderate
    Restricted Permits:  Manaslu Conservation Area Permit (MCAP) and the Restricted Area Permit (RAP)
    Best Season: Spring, Pre-winter, and Autumn
    Duration: 15-21 days (depending upon the personal ability and climate)
    Distance: Approximately 160-180 kilometers (99-112 miles)
    Pricing: Cheaper to moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Difficult

14. Pikey Peak Trekking in Nepal
Pikey Peak (4065 m) is a seasonal snowy hill for nature and cultural exploration. The Pikey gets its name from the local Sherpa CLAN deity, meaning ‘sky over nature. A beautiful combo of Mountains, monasteries & Monks is a seasonal snowy hill that brings a unique travel experience. We can see adorable Kanchenjunga and Dhaulagiri throughout this place. The pikey peak trekking itinerary is an alternate trail to the Everest region. Therefore, it is one of the most popular and is among the best 25 treks in Nepal.
Spotlights 
    Jaw-dropping Himalayan scenery and medieval landscapes
    Everest panorama view,
    The newly discovered rugged trekking route to the Mt. Everest region
    One of the noteworthy hilltop destinations,
    Cultural Exploration of the Sherpas
    Beautiful sunrise views
    Trails are designed for experienced as well as beginner
Quick trek facts
    Highest Altitude: 4,065 meters (13,337 feet)
    Starting point: Japre
    Weather: Good visibility, and cold sometimes
    Trekking Permits:  Gaurishankar Conservation Area Permit and TIMS
    Best Season: Every season but spring and autumn would be best.
    Duration: 6-9 days determined by budget and physical fitness of the trekker
    Distance: Approximately 70-80 kilometers (43-50 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Trekking hardship: Moderate

15. Everest Three Passes
This trek takes you on the truly Himalayan journey of a magnificent geological setting. It also makes it to the list of the toughest trekking trails in the world. The popular trekking trail is in the Khumbu region in the Eastern direction, with so much natural diversity to count upon. The Everest Three Passes Trek makes it into the list of best treks in Nepal because of the wonderful high passes and the challenges that come on the way while crossing the pass.
Spotlights 
    Takes to famous high passes: Kongma-la Pass (5535m), Renjo la Pass (5435), Chola Pass (5420m)
    Visit Sagarmatha National Park (UNESCO enlisted national park),
    Sightseeing Gokyo Lake and Glacier.
    Blooming rhododendrons
    Rare and enchanting animals like snow leopards, Himalayan black bears, weasels, marten, Himalayan mouse hare (pika), etc.
    Wonders of the Himalayas like flora/fauna.
    Old Buddhist monasteries
Quick Trek Facts
    Highest Altitude: Above 5000 meters (5435), (5420m), (5535m),
    Starting point: Lukla
    Weather: Challenging cold and windy (Also frequent downpours and cloudy weather)
    Restricted permits: Yes (Sagarmatha National Park Permit and Khumbu Rural Municipality Permit)
    Best Season: Spring (March to May) and Fall (September to November)
    Duration: 18-22 days determined by budget and physical fitness
    Distance: Approximately 160-170 kilometers (99-105 miles)
    Trekking hardship: Nepal’s toughest trekking trail

    “Leave the road, take the trails.” – Pythagoras

16. Khopra Ridge Trek
One of the top best treks in Nepal is an incredibly special quick route with elements of classic trekking. It includes encountering wildlife, landscapes adorned with alpine forests, pleasant ethnic villages, and encountering wildlife. The panoramic view of giving Khopra Ridge trek lies in the heart of the Annapurna region of mountains. Explore the popular off-the-beaten trek in Nepal. It is one of newly introduced trekking trail in Nepal .
Spotlights  
    Annapurna massif at an arm’s distance
    Walking on Khopra ridge
    Newly opened treks in the Annapurna region
    Sapphire waters of the lake
    Lavish vegetation and terrace farms of mustards and rice
    Himalayan tapestry in the background,
    Graceful cliffs of the Fang Mountain
Quick Trek facts
    Highest Altitude: 3,660 meters (12,008 feet)
    Starting point: Either Ghandruk or Nayapul
    Weather: Mild and cold
    Permits: Yes, 2 types of Annapurna Conservation Area Project (ACAP) Entry Permits, TIMS (Tourist Information Management System) card
    Best Season: Spring (March, April, and May), Autumn (September, October, and November),
    Duration: 6-9 days
    Trekking Distance: 60-70 kilometers (37-43 miles) approx.
    Pricing: Minimal to Moderate
    Trekking hardship: Moderate

17. Dhampus Village Trek
Dhampus village trek is the crown jewel for old Gurung village, mountain ranges like Ganesh Himal and Annapurna, lush rhododendron forests, a splendid view of Sarangkot, ethnic diversity, and so on. If you are looking for a short and enriching, rewarding trek along with a beautiful sunrise view and humble hospitality, then pack your backpack to Dhampus. Overall, it is an easy short family hike in Annapurna.
Spotlights 
    Dhampus Village
    Ganesh Himal, Annapurna Range
    Sarangkot
    Pokhara
    Sunrise View
    Gurung Village
Quick Trek Facts
    Highest Point: Australian Camp at an altitude of 2,050 meters (6,726 feet)
    Starting point: Phedi
    Weather: Mild and pleasant
    Permits: Yes, Annapurna Conservation Area Permit (ACAP) and the Trekkers’ Information Management System (TIMS) card
    Best Season: Spring, Winter, and Autumn
    Duration: 3-5 days
    Trekking Distance: 20-25 kilometers (12-15 miles) approx.
    Pricing: Cheaper
    Trekking difficulty: Easy

18. Rara Lake Trekking in Nepal
Among many exotic trekking places in Nepal, traveling to Rara is an incredibly scenic, remote adventure en route. The trip gives a cultural insight into Jumla and Mugu, which lies in the far western region. Rara Lake is the biggest lake in Nepal at a height of 3,000 m. The lake is also regarded as ‘The queen of the lake. This lake trek is a gateway to breathtakingly alluring mountains of extreme fascination and green forests of the wild. Eventually, the trekking trail leads you through the origin of the Khas language, now Nepali language along Sinja Valley, and is one of the best high-altitude treks in Nepal.
Spotlights 
    Rara is the biggest lake
    Sinja Valley
    Villages Section hike in Mugu and Jumla
    Amazing mountain views
Quick Trek Facts
    Highest Place:  Chuchemara Danda at an altitude of 4,087 meters (13,410 feet)
    Starting point: Mugu/Jumla/Dolpo
    Weather: Cold and humid
    Route Entry Permits:  Rara National Park Entry Permit and the Trekkers’ Information Management System (TIMS) card
    Best Season: Spring
    Duration: 17-15 days
    Walking Distance: Approximately 52-58 kilometers (32-36 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Pricing: Reasonable
    Trekking difficulty: Moderate

19. Shey Phoksundo Trek
Shey Phoksundo Lake is famous for its turquoise alpine freshwater oligotrophic lake. The crystal-clear water looks as if nature is painted on a beautiful canvas of nature. The remote section trek in Nepal not only embraces the pristine lake of Shey Phoksundo but also gives rare insights into Nepalese preserved culture and Tibetan culture (Ringmo village) around the Dolpo region, spectacular view of Dhaulagiri and Nilgiri on the journey of Trans Himalayan mountains. Hence, it also allows you to comprehend unexplored unique Bonpo religion.
Spotlights
    Shey Phoksundo Lake, the deepest lake
    Dhaulagiri and Nilgiri
    Ringmo Village
    Bombo Religion
    Remote trekking in Nepal
Quick Trek Facts
    Maximum Elevation: 5,360 meters (17,585 feet)
    Starting point: Juphal
    Weather: Cold and humid
    Route Entry Permits:  Shey Phoksundo National Park Entry Permit and the Trekkers’ Information Management System (TIMS) card
    Best Season: Spring and Autumn
    Duration: 9 -14 days (depending upon the personal ability and climate)
    Walking Distance: Approximately 70-80 kilometers (43-50 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Pricing: Moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Moderate

20. Upper Dolpo Trekking
The Dolpo region is a less frequently explored territory, away from the modernization of the world. However, for those who are big admirers of the forbidden territory of absolute composure of beauty, the Upper Dolpo Trek is probably the only water that quenches your thirst. The Himalayan trekking destination is heavily familiar with the Tibetan plateau and cultural settlements. Lush forests lead you to the extensive Shey Phoksundo Lake. The clear mountain view casts a spell on you by bringing your inner tranquility to the place . Explore mesmerizing Shey Phoksundo Lake, which is crucial for its crystal-clear water and turquoise shape. Hence, the Upper Dolpo makes it to the list of 25 best treks in Nepal.
Spotlights 
    Less traveled destination.
    Villages in the lap of Upper Dolpa,
    Shey Phoksundo Lake,
    Remote trekking in Nepal
    Lush Forests and green hills.
    Essence in Tibetan Culture and Practices.
Quick Trek Facts
    Maximum Elevation:  Numa La Pass at an altitude of 5,360 meters (17,585 feet)
    Starting point: Nepalgunj
    Weather: Warm and stable
    Restricted permits: Yes
    Best Season: Spring and Fall
    Duration: 18-25 days (depending upon the personal ability and climate)
    Walking distance: Approximately 240-270 kilometers (149-167 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Pricing: Cheaper to moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Moderate
    “Cover the earth before it covers you.”–Dagobert D. Runes

21.Ghandruk Village Trek
Ghandruk is the land of Gurungs. This ornate village lies in the Annapurna region. This trek leads you to witness the rural life of Nepali Gurungs. Besides, there’s also an old Gurung Museum in Ghandruk to help you understand more about ancient Gurung culture and traditions. The place offers close-up views of Machhapuchhre (Fishtail). En route, you get to see the stunning views of beautiful valleys, icy waterfalls, the Annapurna range, dense mossy forests, and Manaslu as well. Having so many things to offer, Ghandruk is equally popular with foreigners and Nepalese people. It’s a perfect fit for those travelers looking for a less difficult and short trail. Hence, if you are planning to go trekking in Nepal with your family or loved ones, then among the top 25 best treks in Nepal, Ghandruk Can is the best option.
Spotlights
    Ghandruk Village.
    Easy hike.
    Gurung Culture,
    Stunning views of the Annapurna range, Machhapuchhre, etc.
    Australian Base Camp.
Quick Trek Facts
    Highest place:  Ghandruk viewpoint at an altitude of 2,010 meters (6,600 feet)
    Starting point: Nayapul,
    Weather: Moderate and average rainfall
    Entry Route Permits: ACAP and TIMS
    Best Season: Spring, Winter, and Autumn,
    Duration: 3 or 4 days,
    Walking distance: 20-25 kilometers (12-15 miles) approx.
    Pricing: Cheaper to moderate
    Trekking difficulty: Easy

22. Jomsom Muktinath Trekking
Jomsom to Muktinath is a popular trekking route for its second most beautiful and clean city. You also visit Jomsom. Then you visit Marpha village. The place is famous for its apples. Thakali meals and apple wine local products are its other ethnic specialties. The religious trip takes you to Muktinath. The area is a sacred pilgrimage site, popular for the Muktinath temple for both Hindus and Buddhists. Besides, the Jomsom to Muktinath itinerary takes you along the Kali Gandaki River and stunning Himalayas and exotic landscapes. Similarly, you learn a secluded mix of Tibetan Buddhist and Bon culture in Braga village, which makes it to the list of best treks in Nepal.
Spotlights
    Mutual shrine for Hindus and Hindus
    Natural hot spring pools
    Blends fascinating Nepali culture.
    One of the best trekking trails
    Gateway to Upper Mustang
    Marvelous views of the Himalayas mountains
    Kali Gandaki River gorge-deepest gorge in Nepal
    Experience the rural life of Nepalese people
Quick Trek facts
    Altitude: 3,800 meters
    Starting point: Jomsom
    Weather: Windy and freezing
    Entry Route Permits: Yes, 2 types (TIMS & ACAP)
    Best Season: Autumn and Spring
    Duration: 10-14 days determined by budget and physical fitness
    Walking distance: Approximately 80-90 kilometers (50-56 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Trekking hardship: Quite tough

23. Helambu Trek
Amidst the Gosainkunda, Talamarang, and slants of Jugal Himal lies the highland of Sherpa & Tamang villages. Helambu Trek offers an enchanting trekking route surrounded by rhododendrons, mountain-scape, glaciers, and a picturesque landscape with gracious flora and fauna. The short popular trekking destination near Kathmandu is a lately introduced trail. Despite being the alternative route, it makes it to the list of best treks in Nepal because of its extreme popularity.
Spotlights:
    High green hills and scenic ridges
    Links the Langtang National Park and Shivapuri National Park
    Diverse geographical variations
    Languages, culture, and dress of Helambu Sherpa
    Typical Hyolmo culture of Nepal
    Laden with Buddhist culture,
    The trail leads through oak, pine, and bamboo forest, and rhododendron.
    Delicious apples
Quick Trek facts:
    Highest elevation:  Tharepati Pass at an altitude of 3,650 meters (11,975 feet)
    Starting point: Sundarijal
    Weather: Moderate to Cold
    Entry Route Permits:  Langtang National Park Entry Permit and the Trekkers’ Information Management System (TIMS) card
    Best Season: Spring (March to May), Autumn (mid-September to mid-December),
    Duration: 5-7 days determined by budget and physical fitness.
    Walking distance: Approximately 72 kilometers (45 miles)
    Trekking hardship: Moderate

24. Gosainkunda Lake Trek
The ancient region of Langtang is unpredictably fantastic. The weather in the place can be full of sunshine, fog, rainfall, and snowfall. Besides, what makes the Gosainkunda trek, one of the popular treks in Nepal is its cultural and natural significance. The lake also flows down, forming the Trishuli River of the mighty Sapta Gandaki River.
Spotlights 
    Freshwater oligotrophic lake
    Majestic mountains view like Ganesh Himal, Langtang Himalayan Range, and Manaslu
    Legendary classical trips
    Made of over ten lakes.
    Famous Hindu and Buddhist pilgrimage and holy Lake
    High pass along the way
    Snow-filled trail.
Quick Trek facts
    Maximum elevation: Laurebinayak Pass at an altitude of 4,610 meters (15,125 feet)
    Starting point: Dhunche
    Weather:  Clear and dry
    Route Permits: Yes, 2 types (TIMS & Langtang National Park Entry Permit)
    Best Season: Spring and autumn
    Duration: 7-10 days
    Walking distance: approximately 70-80 kilometers (43-50 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Trekking hardship: Moderate

25. Tamang Heritage Trail 
A blend of both cultural and natural experiences, Tamang heritage trekking is a walk to the Tamang Villages like Thuman and Briddim. The heritage walk is a short 10-day adventure hike that showcases the amazing cultural points and unique traditions. Henceforth, it is included in the list of the 25 best treks in Nepal.
Spotlights
    Off-the-beaten trekking experiences,
    Unique culture and lifestyle of the locals,
    Tamang heritage,
    Traditional village walks to Galtang, Briddim, and Thuman.
    Outstanding mountain views of Langtang, Ganesh Himal, etc.
    Insights into Buddhism and its Lifestyle
    Local food, folk songs, dances, etc.
Quick Trek Facts
    Maximum Altitude:  Nagthali Danda at an altitude of 3,300 meters (10,826 feet)
    Starting point:  Syabrubesi
    Weather: Clear and fluctuating.
    Route permits:  Langtang National Park Entry Permit and TIMS
    Best Season: March to May or from September to November.
    Duration: 10 Days,
    Walking distance: Approximately 70-80 kilometers (43-50 miles), depending on the route taken and side trips
    Trekking hardship: Easy to Moderate

Nepal Trek insights for beginners:

Choosing the correct hike is the biggest error made by beginners while hiking in Nepal. They pick a long hike or excessive climbing. Since Nepal is full of hiking destinations, consider a short hike if you are a beginner like 2 miles per hour. And if you pick Hill, then add one hour for a thousand feet, or a mountain, about height. If you are hiking, another important thing to consider is the weather. Weather can change your first hiking experience significantly, so it is always best to check the weather before hiking a trail.
Clothing: Make sure the clothes are comfortable enough and in layers.
Right shoes and sore feet can ruin the first hiking experience. Invest in high-quality shoes that provide your ankles with good grip and support. Invest in sharable items such as cooking equipment that can be spread among the team members.
Take lightweight food to hold in light bags. Eat well drink Food is nothing but fuel for the human body, and you just want to erect your tent and sleep after a day’s walk. But eating drinks is incredibly necessary after an entire day of hiking.
While hiking, mobile GPS can be wrong sometimes. So, get the printed map for your planned hike. It’s important to use topographical compass charts, as they are very important in determining the stage, so learn them. We often recommend experienced partners to hike with, or at least with, hiking partners. You can also choose a hiking guide who can help you with every problem.
Not having a hiking experience is also one reason to choose a trekking agency in Nepal. If you have friends who are hikers, invite them to accompany you.

Here are few Short Nepal Treks:

During your stay, you can choose to do many activities. You have several choices if you enjoy strolling in a pristine setting. You can go on mountain expeditions, or hike to lower elevations. Or, if you don’t have enough time, then your adventure cravings are suited to the short treks around Kathmandu Valley.
    Nagarkot Hiking tour (1 day)
    Chandragiri Hill short hiking (1 day)
    Chisapani Nagarkot Hiking (3 days)
    Everest view trek (7 days)
    Pikey Peak trek (9 days)
    Short Annapurna luxury Trek (8 days)
    Short Mardi Himal Trek (8 days)
    Ghorepani Poonhill Luxury Trek (8 days)
    Helambu Trek (9 days)

Trekking in Nepal FAQs:
Is trekking in Nepal safe?

Nepal is one of the safest countries in South Asia. Violent crimes are very rare. Since childhood, Nepalese have been taught to consider guests as gods. They have good hospitality and are friendly. Besides, there are dedicated tourist police in operation to help you if something goes wrong. The common problem is altitude sickness while trekking at high altitudes. So avoid walking alone and follow safety protocols. Further, Nepal is safe for everyone, including females and transgender people. Nepal is the only country in South Asia that allows same-sex relationships.

How can I get to Nepal?
If you are a national other than Indian, then you require a tourist visa to get to Nepal. You can get a visa on arrival here at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu for a small fee. Other than that, you can also apply online or get a visa from the Nepalese embassy in your country.

Do I need insurance to go trekking in Nepal?
Yes, getting insured is always the best thing to do while trekking in the Himalayas. Travel insurance covers things that go wrong while hiking, such as trip cancellation, sickness, stolen bags, and emergency evacuation.

Which month is best for trekking in Nepal?
Nepal experiences four seasons, i.e., summer, autumn, winter, and spring. Summer is also a monsoon season. Winter is cold. So, avoid summer and winter; autumn and spring are the best seasons to go on a trek. This means March, April, May, September, October, and November are the best months to go trekking in Nepal.

Will there be any telephone or internet facilities at higher altitudes?
Most of the places have good coverage on mobile networks. You can use the roaming facility of your international phone or get a new Nepalese SIM card in Kathmandu to use mobile data and phone calls. Besides, hotels have telephones for international calls. The Wi-Fi service is also available in hotels on popular trekking routes in Nepal. But you need to pay extra fees to use a telephone or Wi-Fi service.

How much does it cost to go trekking in Nepal?
Trekking in Nepal is very affordable. The visa fees are also very cheap. It’s just 30 USD for 15 days, 50 USD for 30 days, and 125 USD for 90 days. Although the total cost depends on the number of days you stay, places you visit, and hotels and services you use, you can visit anywhere by taking an exemplary service of 100 USD a day on average.
The cost includes hotel charges, a few permits, local transport, a trip guide, food, and all that. You can also visit some places by spending just 50 USD a day on average.

Do you have tailor-made Nepal trekking trips?
Yes, if you have a certain trekking destination you would like to explore and have an itinerary, Heaven Himalaya helps you arrange a trip for yourself. Otherwise, if you want to combine certain trips or change the itinerary available on different websites, then we can help you with that.

How high should you go while trekking in Nepal?
Mostly, the highest points you will trek will be around 5500 meters. Some of the highest places you will trek to are viewpoints and mountain passes. But, on average, you will walk to around 4000 meters in altitude. However, there are plenty of treks in Nepal to choose from, from challenging treks to low-altitude treks.

How hard is trekking in Nepal?
Trekking in Nepal is not as difficult as some travelers consider. There are hiking routes for first-time trekkers as well. Also, the popular routes are moderate in difficulty and only require good fitness and hiking habits.

Is camping allowed in Nepal?
Yes, camping is allowed in most trekking destinations. Back then, camping was popular, as there were only a few hotels in trekking areas. But now, you can find hotels and teahouses in almost every trekking destination, so most people do not carry things with them for camping.
What is the longest trekking route in Nepal?
There are months-long trekking routes. However, some of the popular long routes are Kanchenjunga Base Camp, Makalu Base Camp, Everest Three High Passes, Tsum Valley, Manaslu Circuit Trek, etc.

Are there excellent hotels in the mountains?
Every route has hotels along the way. But, except in major cities, you can’t expect star hotels on every route. Mostly, there are family-owned guesthouses that have a common dining area and a normal room with two beds and a toilet. Teahouses are also popular on trekking trails in Nepal. But you can find some excellent hotels in major destinations like Namche.

Do you need a trekking guide in Nepal?
We strongly recommend taking a professional English-speaking guide while you are trekking in Nepal. Hiking at high altitudes is not the same every time. The weather, the people, and the forests might trouble you. So, having a guide will help you get out of that. Other than that, he or she will lead your group to the desired destination on time without getting lost on the way. Don’t rely only on Google Maps in the mountains.

Is it necessary to tip porters and guides after trekking?
Tipping is a good way of appreciating workers who have helped you finish your goal. Porters and guides go the extra mile to make your Nepal trekking vacation exceptional.
So, it’s good to tip them. Other than that, their wages are lower. They expect some tips from you. However, it’s not a compulsion to tip porters or guides in the mountains.

How many hours a day on average should I have to walk while going on a trekking vacation in Nepal? 
The average trekking hours while on a trek to the mountains are 4–5 hours. However, for some days, you might also have to walk 7-8 hours a day.
Also, on some days, there are only 3–4 hours if you walk at low altitudes. But you can always add an extra day if you aren’t able to match up the hiking days.

What should I pack for the above-mentioned famous treks in Nepal?
The mountains are always cold. So, the first thing you need to pack is warm and comfortable hiking clothes. Other than that, here is a Nepal trekking packing list.
At the End:
In a nutshell, trekking in Nepal is an exceedingly popular adventure across the world. Every trip has a unique trail and offers raw experiences. However, the list of the 25 best treks in Nepal is based on the popularity of the trails among visitors. These popular treks in the mountains are multi-day treks and require great hiking enthusiasm and physical fitness.


